---
description: "This page is Zhifeng's Study Diary of Week 5, October 2024."
long_title: "Week 5 - Oct 2024 - Study Diary - Zhifeng"
---

# Oct Week 5

I have been thinking about the procedure of deciding which month a week might belong. I used to use the starting day (Monday) to determine: if that day is in a particular month, that week belongs to that month. Now, I'm using Wednesday to make that decision.

# Tuesday. Oct. 29th

I'm planning to refactor the path parsing of my custom module code blocks. I'm currently using the "language string" as modules naming and fetching, representing the static path of the JavaScript modules.

The plan worked smoothly.

# Wednesday. Oct. 30th

## Calling 'render'

To fulfill my plan of making a Barnes-Hut Tree graph vertex selector, I'm planning to add specifications on the `mdtome`'s render function calls by appending the "extension" names after the "render" original function names. In this way, there is less ambiguity between different modules' rendering function namings. To achieve this design, I also need to modify the client-side codes to make sure the function calls are matched.

The plan worked smoothly.

## The left navigation bar

One problem about encapsulating contents is whether to display the subtree navigation structure when a reader navigates to the root node of that subtree of contents. Previously, I chose to display the subtree, but today, I realized that switching the table of contents might be very confusing. So, I choose to remove this design such that when a reader navigates through the same "depth" of contents above the encapsulated ones, the table of contents will not change.

# Thursday. Oct. 31th

Today is Halloween, but it has nothing to do with me haha. With some spare time, I need to focus and finish my design of using Octree to select nodes and view its information, along with providing necessary controls to allow users to navigate through the graph with traditional edges. Even though my previous design is robust enough, during the process of making new "extensions", I still noticed a bunch of place I can improve. I guess I'm learning, to some extent, too fast. My implementation of Barnes-Hut Tree this June is already "unfamilar," mainly the module naming part. The conceptual design is still fairly robust, and I was be able to get the data I need with only a few additional implementations.

# Saturday. Nov. 2rd

The previous design of my website's left navigation bar doesn't allow users to traverse through the website only using the left navigation bar. Viewing the source code of my `mdtome` website generator, I suddenly felt that I can simply render the left navigation bar twice for the encapsulated nodes: one for the above subtree and one for the current subtree. The execution of the plan was very smooth.
