---
description: "This page is Zhifeng's Study Diary of Week 2, December 2024."
long_title: "Week 2 - Dec 2024 - Study Diary - Zhifeng"
---

# Monday, Dec. 9th

# Tuesday, Dec. 10th

I learned a bit about Blender's rigging system. I would say the design and the information needed between raw meshes and skeletal meshes are what I anticipated and guessed.

One significant difficulty I encountered was that I didn't know how to select a bone and view its affected vertices. It turned out that I had to pick the bones in the "pose mode", select the skin mesh, and then switch to the "weight painting" mode to solve that. Reflecting on that, I think that concern is pretty similar to my visualization design of enabling getting one node's information from both the visual position and the "graph" traversal point of view.

# Wednesday, Dec. 11th

Today's main task is to work on the final project of CS415. I have gained a lot of experience with Unreal's animation system. I would say learning is, to some extent, understanding the original developers' problem-solving considerations.

One significant difficulty I encountered was that the animation montage was somehow not played. I didn't manage to find the answer on the web. After carefully checking the existing working blueprints, I found there needs to be a default selection node before outputting.

# Thursday, Dec. 12th

## Reading _Harnessing Student Solutions to Support Learning at Scale_ { #harnessing_student_solutions_to_support_learning_at_scale }

> Wang, X. (2020). Harnessing Student Solutions to Support Learning at Scale (Doctoral dissertation, University of California San Diego (I think it should be CMU)).

To some extent, I think the current systems tend to use "Spatial Difference" learning (a word I made up, in contrast of "temporal difference") to predict human behaviors or make high quality contents? Like, the AI can't understand the true essence of contents, and it can only find what people similar to you is enjoying and make predicitions. How can we formalize the essense with in paints, movies, books, and papers?

I notice that the identification of misconceptions is indeed an important focus of the CS Education community. I wonder if there is any way to automate that. On the other hand, it seems that the heavy dependency on qualitative user studies is bringing a somewhat bad reputation, i.e., it is impossible to reproduce, to the HCI community. I'm looking for ways to study qualitative thoughts in a reproducible quantitative way.
