---
description: "This page is Zhifeng's Study Diary of Week 3, December 2024."
long_title: "Week 3 - Dec 2024 - Study Diary - Zhifeng"
---

# Monday, Dec. 16th, 2024

## Reading _The Cambridge Handbook of Computing Education Research Summarized in 75 minutes_ { #the_cmabridge_handbook_of_cs_ed_summarized }

> Lewis, C. M., Bell, T., Blikstein, P., Carter, A. S., Falkner, K., Fincher, S. A., ... & Yadav, A. (2020, February). The Cambridge Handbook of Computing Education Research Summarized in 75 minutes. In Proceedings of the 51st ACM Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education (pp. 323-324).

This is indeed an interesting way to link to all the sub-chapter-ish papers. I'm going to read through all the chapters to learn about the community and field in more depth.

# Friday, Dec. 20th, 2024

## Thank you, Shop Assistants

I was paying on a self-service machine of Target Campustown branch. After paying with my apple pay, I forgot that I need to enter my security pin on the machine. I usual procedure is to use my left hand to cover the number pad and use my right hand to enter the pin, but, this time, the bag fell off the counter, the blueberry box cracked open, and the blueberries came out. While I was panicking, busy picking up the scattered blueberries on the floor, and thinking about my mistake separating those blueberries, which potentially are siblings from the same bush, forever and violating my memory safety concerns, one shop assistant helped me to clean the floor, picked up my peanut butter jar for me and swepted some of the berries away, and another shop assistant asked me whether I want to take a new box of berries. She was so kind to me and I heard she said she "don't take no as an answer." But I don't want to waste a whole box of berries just because of my mistake and recklessness. So I insisted that I can still rinse these.

I deeply appreciate the two shop assistants' kindness and patience.

# Saturday, Dec. 21st, 2024

## Personal Project Dev

Working on separating the Connect Four solver from the static file serving server.

# Sunday, Dec. 22nd, 2024

## Personal Project Dev

Building a web server for Connect Four generally needs

1. Setting up a configuration loading logic: listening to which port and accepting which domains.

2. Setting up Connect 4 openning table loading logic.

3. Setting up the endpoint.
