---
description: "This page is Zhifeng's Study Diary of Week 4, November 2024."
long_title: "Week 4 - Nov 2024 - Study Diary - Zhifeng"
---

# General

I'm trying to design a mental workflow of reading and taking notes of academic literature.

# Wednesday, Nov. 27th

## _Understanding Written Problem Instructions_

> APA: Hayes, J. R., & Simon, H. A. (1974). Understanding written problem instructions. Knowledge and cognition, 167-200.

### Tea Ceremony

It's interesting to see that the game of "Tower of Hanoi", or say the state space, can be disguised in different words. I wonder how different initial heuristics might be triggered at the beginning of trying to solve the game. For example, if the game was delivered in the "Tea ceremony" context, the participants might be taking some level of daily understanding of relationship between people into the initial understanding and heuristic on solving the puzzle compared to the plain game of "Tower of Hanoi".

### Discussion of Understanding

> If our main interest lay in artificial intelligence, then we would want the UNDERSTAND program to understand in the deepest, most efficient, most flexible way possible. (p.197)

That's one of the major concerns for my Connect Four study. What's the most efficient way to classify all legal Connect Four boards into seven types of boards representing the optimal moves or 43-ish types of boards representing the best possible results? For the board size of width 6 and height 6, a simple strategy always leads to drawing, but are there any systematic ways to find such a thing for any board size of Connect Four or any arbitrary game?

For example, if the "Tower of Hanoi" is delivered using a huge graph of valid states and transitions, are there any systematic ways to find that the disk representation of the game is the most efficient or "intuitive for human" way for us to find valid moves and solutions.

> Computers are notoriously hard to program, and humans almost as notoriously hard to educate.

I would say the first one might be a lot easier. Even though computers are very complicated, they are still white boxes, I guess. Plus, you can always reboot them.

### Reflections

I guess it would be impossible for people to use only "black box" testing to determine whether a computer program or a person's understanding or solution on a thing with infinite inputs is correct. Maybe, for example, we can't make sure a program or a person can sum two numbers correctly with only "black box" testing. There always might be a "backdoor-ish" error on some magic numbers. Sometimes, the overflow issue of using a fixed number of bits to represent integers can truly confuse and trip off students like me, at least at the beginning.

### Typo

I think there is a "HEURISTIC OMPILER" on page 176. Not sure if that's a typo or not...

# Friday, Nov. 29th

## _CFlow: Supporting Semantic Flow Analysis of Students' Code in Programming Problems at Scale_ { #cflow }

> Zhang, A. G., Tang, X., Oney, S., & Chen, Y. (2024, July). CFlow: Supporting Semantic Flow Analysis of Students' Code in Programming Problems at Scale. In Proceedings of the Eleventh ACM Conference on Learning@ Scale (pp. 188-199).

We can view the intellectual activity of coding in different ways. I wonder if it's also possible to view coding or transforming math equations as a process of finding solutions in the state space of code pieces or math equations.

Viewing codes as a linear structure of lines might be helpful in terms of using clustering algorithms of strings(?) to group different implementations and misconceptions together in order to help the instructors find the, maybe, say, weak spots in their lectures and teaching materials.

As Hayes and Simon mentioned, I would say the instructors are trying to identify the "deepest, most efficient," the weak spots that explain the most misconceptions, as mentioned in another literature, "super misconception."

How might a system or visualization be able to identify those? I think that might an interesting research question to dig in.

# Sunday, Dec. 1st

I'm personally interested in supporting students from underrepresented communities by building a system grouping course materials, lecture recordings, homework, assignments, and visualizations together, along with using assignment submission data like student codes to identify misconceptions, potential blind spots in teaching materials, find students who might need help, and personalize potential academic interventions.

My personal extracurricular activities mainly consist of designing my website, which can potentially be easily transformed into course materials, along with embedding interactive visualizations of abstract topics like data structures. I'm also trying to understand misconceptions and heuristics identification process through the board game Connect Four, hoping that developing a way to systematically teach Connect Four can shed light on teaching more complicated materials.

## _Understanding Children's Perception of Datafication Online in China_ { #children_perception_of_datafication_online_in_china }

> Zhu, Y., Wang, G., Li, Y., & Zhao, J. (2024). “It's Like How Mom Cooks for You, Tell Her Nothing You Only Get Chicken Soup.”: Understanding Children's Perception of Datafication Online in China. International Journal of Human–Computer Interaction, 1-19.

The authors have conducted interviews with Chinese middle-school-age children to get a better understanding of these children's perceptions of datafication practices. I think the researchers' design of using videos and metaphors to introduce the datafication concept is very considerate and kind.

> - Research Question 1: What are the current perceptions among children in China regarding datafication?
>
>   We identified three key knowledge gaps in children's perception of datafication practices, including their lack of recognition of their data ownership, the transmission of data across platforms, and the broader implications of datafication beyond video recommendation, such as inferences about their personal aspects.
>
> - Research Question 2: How, if at all, may children in China demonstrate any unique cultural traits regarding their perceptions of datafication?
>
>   Chinese children often talked positively about the use of datafication and big data for achieving "collective good for the whole society" and were generally less sensitive to how datafication practices could have impacts on them as individuals.
>
>   Research with Western children has shown that while parental influence remains significant for children in the age 13 group of 11–14, peer influence begins to play a more prominent role, making children more sensitive to interpersonal privacy risks.
>
> - Research Question 3: What kinds of designs and supports may be needed by Chinese children to help them navigate datafication?
>
>   Chinese children's emphasis on the practicality and factual accuracy of datafication, as well as the central role of families in their digital lives, suggest opportunities for designers to incorporate practical and real-world datafication examples and enhance family involvement in educating children about datafication.

## _CHAITok: A Proof-of-Concept System Supporting Children's Sense of Data Autonomy on Social Media_ { #reading_chaitok }

> Wang, G., Zhao, J., Johnston, S. K., Zhang, Z., Van Kleek, M., & Shadbolt, N. (2024, May). CHAITok: A Proof-of-Concept System Supporting Children's Sense of Data Autonomy on Social Media. In Proceedings of the CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (pp. 1-19).

The authors have developed an experimental "social media" with cognitive autonomy, emotional autonomy, and behavioral autonomy design concerns in mind and conducted interviews with middle-school-age children to understand their perceptions of data autonomy and the experimental platform.

> - Research Question 1: How, if at all, do children currently experience and perceive the handling of their data on social media platforms?
>
>   A passive and disrespectful experience... As a result, children have shown great distrust in these social media platforms... Many children also expressed concerns about their data-related well-being on social media.
>
> - Research Question 2: How does CHAITok infuence children’s user experience and sense of autonomy over their data?
>
>   Sense of Security... Sense of Empowerment... Sense of Respect...
>
>   Lack of supporting context... Disinterest and lack of confidence...
>
> - Research Question 3: What are children’s expectations towards having data autonomy on social media platforms?
>
>   - Designs enhancing data safety and security.
>   - Designs supporting self-reflection of their data.
>   - Designs enabling users to create and control their own recommendation algorithms.
>   - Data Autonomy as deciding for your own data.
>   - Data Autonomy as resilience over own data.
>   - Data Autonomy as developmental competencies to be learnt.

I think the idea of building an experimental platform is very interesting. I wonder if it's possible to find different social media usage patterns or the general technology usage patterns from users with different levels of awareness of data autonomy, for example, if a user tries to intentionally view random contents just to make the algorithm's recommendation more natural.

### General Reflections

From CS + Education literature about finding student misconceptions, teaching system designs for instructors, and understanding human-centered AI for children, I think using interviews is a very common approach. Teachers conduct interviews with their students to get misconceptions during coding processes, and researchers ask instructors to evaluate novel teaching systems and children's perceptions of social media. I'm personally interested in conducting research to identify AI and human students' Connect Four misconceptions during their learning process and, therefore, maximize teaching efficacy. I wonder if there are ways to model perhaps the student coding process or social media usage, like a sequence of actions, and consequently find "super misconception" or different levels of privacy concerns on social media platforms.

I feel the lack of trust might be a general problem of highly specialized societies. The gap in experience and understanding between the general public and the software engineers and business elites might be just too big.
